The Dorian Principle, a biblical response to the commercialization of Christianity by
Conle Owens, chapter 14, the path of progress.
Problem vs. solution.
A friend of mine named Brian runs a website that displays images of ancient New Testament
manuscripts.
One day he received an email from a museum demanding he pay $100 or take down his image
of P66, a fragment of John generally regarded as the oldest surviving New Testament manuscript.
The museum possessed this particular relic, and then sending the message to Brian, claimed
that they owned the copyright to the photographic copy featured on his site.
It's not merely hobbyist activities that are stung by such approaches to copyright.
For example, it has even had an impact on the Center for the Study of New Testament
Manuscripts, CSNTM, the foremost institution in the digitization and archival of New Testament
manuscripts.
At a presentation from its Executive Director, Daniel B. Wallace, I once asked why so many
of the organization's archived digitizations were inaccessible through the CSNTM website.
Dr. Wallace responded by appealing to copyright and contractual agreements with the institutions
that own the physical manuscripts.
The notion that copyright protects mechanical reproductions of public domain works is dubious
at best, and substantial court precedent indicates otherwise.
Regardless, in either of these examples, we see that the spirit Athenian continues today.
The sixth century dispute over a copied salter has resurfaced in our own digital era.
But as discussed in the preceding chapter, this issue goes far beyond Manuscripts' scripture.
All ministry must conform to the Dorian Principle.
In this final chapter, I'd like to begin with the production of Bible versions and continue
on to address a few other areas where I believe the biblical ethic of ministry fundraising has
been compromised.
At each stop, I'd also like to offer some steps the church may take to restore that ethic.
Bibles
A surprising number of restrictions limit the distribution and use of scripture.
To begin, the ancient handwritten manuscripts that preserve our old and new testaments are
largely inaccessible to the public.
Many of these manuscripts hide behind physical walls because they have not been digitized,
but others hide behind paywalls designed to direct revenue toward museums and other institutions.
Because manuscripts each have their own scribal peculiarities, prior to translation, Bible
societies typically rescind these collected writings into a single document, known as a critical
addition.
While legal ambiguity clouds the matter, courts outside the United States have upheld
copyright protection for critical editions.
Likewise, copyright protection applies to translations of scripture.
Fair use doctrine dictates that creative works may reproduce portions of other creative
works for certain purposes and to limited degrees.
But at least in the United States, no law can concretely codify these limits.
Due to this ambiguity, Bible version copyright holders typically provide their own guidelines,
offering consumers some guarantee on what usage they will not litigate.
Almost all English versions of the Bible offer roughly the same guidelines for works that
incorporate them.
1.
The work must not be sold or used commercially.
Note that the notion of commercial use typically includes practices such as featuring
verses on the website that displays ads to gain revenue.
2.
No more than 500 verses may be reproduced.
3.
No book of the Bible may be reproduced in its entirety.
4.
The reproduced text may not compose more than 25% of the work that contains it.
5.
The reproduced text may not be modified from the original text of the version.
6.
The version must be cited.
A.
Non-cell will mean that such as church bulletins may simply use the appropriate version acronym,
EG and IV.
2.
Sailable medium lists include a full copyright notice.
Typically this is roughly 25 words long.
Note that items such as bookmarks, t-shirts, etc. are considered saleable, even if they
are not sold.
As just one example, the King James Version of the Bible, KJV, is governed by most of these
standard guidelines.
Contrary to popular belief, the KJV does not exist in the public domain, but is actually
protected by the crown's perpetual copyright, although none have attempted to enforce these
restrictions outside of the United Kingdom.
Of course, public domain translations do exist, but these represent only a small minority
of those in circulation.
Any restriction on the distribution and use of the Bible potentially harms the church.
It is not merely that ministries may be inhibited from printing and distributing Bibles, but that
all sorts of uses of the Bible are unduly uncombert.
To publish a track with heavy Bible usage typically requires special authorization.
To fashion multi-version Bible reading software comparable to the popular options that currently
exist, developers must secure rights from dozens of institutions.
Other potential applications share a similar overhead.
Moreover, for those confused or discouraged by the proliferation of Bible versions, it
is worth noting this undoubtedly exists in part because of restrictions imposed by copyright.
Rather than pay out to other publishing houses, each publishing house with sufficient resources
fashions its own version that it may use royalty-free.
Beyond these pragmatic concerns, we must ask whether a biblical principle has been violated.
If the local church must minister without reciprocity, then it must have the capacity to offer the
Bible without restriction.
If Jesus demanded the gospel be proclaimed freely, then the gospel as recorded by His
apostles should be offered without cost.
Granted, the various institutions that collect manuscripts, create critical editions, and
produce translations may operate only as academic enterprises having no interest in sincere
ministry.
However, many of these institutions publicly state their intent to further the gospel, and
inasmuch as they aim to advance the kingdom of God, they violate the Dory principle when
they employ copyright protections to restrict the use of the Bible.
Books
While Bibles remain fundamental to Christian or religious instruction, other books are perhaps
more germane to our investigation.
That is, as we have noted, one may archive biblical manuscripts, engage in textual criticism,
and translate the Bible without any interest in the edification of the church.
However, apart from purely academic studies, other biblical resources are almost always
created with the express intent of edifying the church or reaching the lost.
As such, the Dory principle especially regulates them.
Black details on Christian publishing are difficult to come by, but in 2015, Nielsen reported that
adult nonfiction Christian book sales had top 30 million units sold in 2014, rising steadily
from 18 million units in 2009.
Even with a conservative estimate, that represents hundreds of millions of dollars a year in sales.
With such large numbers, we should be concerned about the ethical implications for this industry.
If one sells a religious book at a price above the cost of printing, he exchanges teaching
for fee.
Rather than follow the commercial publishing model of the world, ministers, i.e. Christian
author's penning religious instruction, ought to give without pay because they have received
without pay, CF Matthew 108.
Moreover, they ought not place any restriction on those who receive their teaching.
While most popular publishers require contractual agreements that would prohibit offering books
freely, the present era has witnessed the rise of self-publishing.
Self-publishing comes with its own drawbacks and challenges, but churches should make use
of such tools if they are necessary to conform to a biblical ethic of ministry fundraising.
Similarly, academic theological publications frequently require copyright reassignment,
so that institutions make control access to research and to maintain streams of revenue.
While the presence of open access publications have grown in some academic communities, these
offerings lag behind in theological disciplines.
Established journals have cultivated communities in academic integrity, but certainly new institutions
could do the same.
In the meantime, Christians who want to pursue this ethic will have to pursue publishing
in less highly regarded journals or through alternative channels.
It bears repeating the insufficiency of offering such literature without financial cost.
Non-financial restrictions also transgress the Dorian principle.
For example, a book that is offered without a fee, but not licensed for modification, leaves
distributors unable to adapt the book to their needs.
Some digital outlets might have different ways of packaging, encoding, or tagging documents,
and these may be encumbered by copyright law apart from an explicit waiver.
Author seeking to minister freely should not inhibit any creative uses of their work.
The most substantial barrier to improvement in this area is that of establishment.
The Christian publishing industry offers a standard, time-tested method for distributing
works and recovering incurred costs.
Moreover, as nearly all respectable authors of the last century have followed suit, this
method has the tacit imprimatur of a host of saints.
However, any who wishes sincerely on our God must not confuse a generational homogeneity
with reasoned judgment.
The sacred work of ministry must be distinguished from any sacred cow of method.
Hems in worship songs, while sung to the Lord, are also written for the instructional benefit
of men.
As such, the Dorian principle must govern them.
At the moment, interested parties heavily regulate Christian worship music.
Many hymn lyrics are in the public domain, but typical publications of these Hems offer
updated renditions subject to copyright protection.
The same phenomenon occurs when published arrangements pair ancient lyrics with modern
tunes.
Performance of a musical work of a religious nature in the course of a service in a religious
assembly does not constitute copyright infringement in the United States, but most jurisdictions
forbid reproduction or other public performance of these Hems without express permission.
Frequently, the purchase of a hymnal grants a limited license for those activities.
For churches who singing repertoire exceeds traditional hymnity, Christian copyright licensing
international CCLI manages the rights to the largest brunt of Christian worship music
and issues licenses to churches and other entities.
However, even using these avenues to secure the necessary rights for congregational worship,
one might be surprised at how many restrictions remain.
For example, many hymnals just allow print rate production of any kind.
Additionally, licenses rarely give broad rights to record music.
Furthermore, they typically prohibit changes to the musical arrangement.
For example, the CCLI does not give rights to alter or change the lyrics' melody or fundamental
character of any song.
While many violate these terms in ignorance and suffer no consequences, copyright holders
have prosecuted such cases against churches in court, even to the tune of millions of
dollars in damages, and even for activities as seemingly innocuous as arranging a hymn
for a choir.
While churches could simply restrict their musical worship to songs and tunes that exist
in the public domain, many regard familiarity as essential to congregational singing and
would not consider such limitations a viable option.
Additionally, at least in the United States, churches could rely on their provisions for
religious assemblies which exempt them from the typical restrictions of the law.
However, in order to remain legally compliant, they would have to be circumspect regarding
the music they copy and the context in which they sing protected worship songs.
For the song author, the apparent solution follows those previously given.
A public domain dedication removes any concerns about copyright protection, and in general,
the copyright holders should not seek to take advantage of his legal protection.
To use the power of the civil government to enforce copyright protection on religious
music is to fundamentally impose a worship tax on churches.
Software
Insofar as software marries itself to gospel ministry, the Dorian principle must govern
it as well.
In some cases, this is more easily discerned than others.
Bible study software, since it exists solely for the purpose of religious education, ought
to conform to our stated ethic.
Of course, there are many applications that do not.
For example, the Bible study software logus does not include all features with anything
lower than the gold package, which currently retails for $1,549.99.
On one hand, the landscape has changed so that it has become standard for the base versions
of software packages to be offered at no cost.
On the other hand, these software producers often make money by upselling digital packages
of licensed material, specifically tailored for their application.
Some public domain works retail at substantial prices.
As just one example, logus has set the list price for their edition of John Calvin's Institutes
of the Christian Religion at $69.99.
Other tools do not specifically exist for the sake of religious instruction, but still
attempt to provide assistance in the Christian life.
Mobile app prayer companions help Christians keep track of prayer requests.
Relief software helps Christians resist temptation on the internet, and church management systems
help churches to keep track of their resources.
While the development of such applications may not be an activity that proclaims the
gospel or directly attends to its proclamation, Christians should think twice before charging
for such tools.
Recall that the disciples were forbidden from charging for healing, Matthew 10/8, and many
of those tools aim to affect a sort of healing in the life of the user that they might better
know the grace of Christ.
Anything governed by the Dorian principle should be offered freely without restriction.
In the context of software, this not only implies access to an application, but the permission
to modify it.
Developers to designing applications and attempt to further the gospel should take this into
account and write such adaptable software typically styled open source.
Conclusion
In the modern age, copyright presents the greatest threat to the Dorian principle.
However, there is hope.
We do not have to be stuck in the age of Column-Cole and is fettered-sulter.
In each of the categories presented in this chapter, the church has the opportunity to move
forward by embracing support models that revolve around co-labor and abandon attempts to secure
reciprocity.
End of chapter 14